---
layout:     post
title:      December 1st Press Release
categories: Releases
date:       '2014-12-01'
---

**FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE**

What: Demonstration of the People  
When: 6:30pm, December 1st, 2014  
Where: Front Steps of Cleveland City Hall  
601 Lakeside Ave E  
Cleveland, OH 44114  

**CLEVELAND, OHIO -** In response to the recent deaths perpetrated by members of law enforcement, the concerned residents of Cleveland, Ohio, Children’s Defense Fund’s New Abolitionist Association, and allied groups are calling for a convergence on Cleveland City Hall on Monday, December 1st at 6:00 PM to present a series of policy reforms and recommended wholesale changes before city council. The policy reforms are designed to work in concert with the impending Jan 2015 implementation of body cameras by the Cleveland Division of Police, and include a call for an annually elected Citizen Review Board that is armed with firing powers, a re-haul of the current plan for camera footage storage review, and the resignation of Safety Director Michael McGrath.

The violent acts against our community over the last few weeks, and the acts of injustice leading up to today, has given us no option but to demand that law enforcement and those elected and/or assigned by the people to serve the people, be held accountable for their actions and misconduct. Police serving in the community have sworn to protect and serve us - yet the incidences of deadly force, the militarization of law enforcement, and police misconduct have doubled, and in some cases tripled, over the past decade.

The People of Cleveland will no longer cooperate with a city or system that does not value the lives of its citizens and view us as human beings. On Monday, city officials will gather at City Hall to mandate policy as they do every Monday in council. This Monday, December 1st, the mandate will come from the people as we convene at Cleveland City Hall.
 
We, as a collective body, have formed a strategic campaign to respond to the violence that we are currently experiencing in our communities. We’ve attended public meetings, vigils and rallies, and talked to family and community members, as well as community leaders. After listening carefully, we have formulated a very specific list of policy and operational change demands that answer a call for justice and better community engagement that has been heard from every corner of Cleveland.

 
 
### Reform Statement and Citizen Demands 

**1.** The immediate implementation of body cameras in their utter and complete capacity as of January 25th 2015. Each ranked officer of the C.P.D. and all auxiliary forces capable of enforcing and expediting the law shall wear a camera equipped with audio and visual capabilities on their person for the full duration of their shift without exception. The sound and image faculties of said cameras shall never be mutually exclusive. We demand these machines for mechanized surveillance bears no bias unlike the common perversion of truth afforded by patrol-men and women who survey our streets at present. 

**2.** The allocation and implementation of body cameras and the entirety of data procured therein, rest exclusively under the jurisdiction of a democratically elected Citizen Review Board. Said data shall exist as public record in the instance of complaints and criminal charges waged against both the officers of the law and civilians alike. We recommend with the upmost urgency that the City of Cleveland and the C.P.D follow Department of Justice protocol regarding allotment of said data, conjointly its relevance over time in accordance with the ordinance of limitations that frame any fraction of the law. Our stipulations demand premium standards of accountability and transparency by which the Cleveland Police Department and all its subsidiaries must abide, including County and State law enforcement officers and departments operating in the Greater Cleveland area.

**3.** Cleveland Division of Police must abolish its Internal Investigations process and establish an independent review process placed in the hands of a Citizens Review Board. The C.R.B. shall be democratically and directly elected by the voting public and no longer appointed by the mayor’s office.  In accordance with our demands previous, the C.R.B. shall hold the powers of direct disciplinary action and cease to be an entity that is simply advisory in nature. Regarding the immense data generated by body cameras we compel the Citizens Review Board to execute unequivocal hiring and firing power apropos of the C.P.D. regardless of rank and form. Officers of the C.P.D. who come before the C.R.B as a result of a complaint must comprehend and accept the perpetual persistence of body camera data held by C.R.B and in the case of a complaint wherein the camera was inactive or tampered with, the lack of audio-visual evidence will work definitively in the plaintiffs favor.  We require the actuality of representation so that the citizen’s stock in law enforcement is equitable to the interest we hold in our judges and prosecutors. The C.PD no longer must curry favor internally, it cannot persist without the trust of the populous via established checks and balances in accordance with all other branches of municipal government. 

**Contact:**
Joseph Worthy
Children’s Defense Fund Ohio
216-650-1961
jworthy@childrensdefense.org 

Jason Eugene 
Children’s Defense Fund Ohio, NAA
216-376-0142
